Update Cloudflare Workers guide (#1043)
grammyjs/website: site/docs/hosting/cloudflare-workers-nodejs.md

## Prerequisites

1. a [Cloudflare account](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) with your workers subdomain [configured](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?account=workers).

> 2. a working [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/) environment with `npm` installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. a working [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en) environment with `npm` installed.
```

Reviewer: @grammyz What about this suggestion?

## Setting Things Up

First, create a new project:

```sh
npm create cloudflare@latest
```

Then, you are asked to type the name of the worker:

> ```sh

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```sh{6}
````

> ```sh

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```output
````

using create-cloudflare version 2.17.1

╭ Create an application with Cloudflare Step 1 of 3
│

> ╰ In which directory do you want to create your application? also used as application name
>   ./grammybot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
╰ In which directory do you want to create your application? also used as application name // [!code focus]
  ./grammybot // [!code focus]
```

```

Here we create a project named `grammybot`, you can choose your own, this will be the name of your worker as well as a part of the request URL.

::: tip
You can change the name of your worker in `wrangler.toml` later.
:::

Next, you are asked to select the type of your worker, here we choose `"Hello World" Worker`:

> ```sh

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```sh{8}
````

> ```sh

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```output
````

using create-cloudflare version 2.17.1

╭ Create an application with Cloudflare Step 1 of 3
│
├ In which directory do you want to create your application?
│ dir ./grammybot
│

> ╰ What type of application do you want to create?
>   ● "Hello World" Worker
>   ○ "Hello World" Worker (Python)
>   ○ "Hello World" Durable Object
>   ○ Website or web app
>   ○ Example router & proxy Worker
>   ○ Scheduled Worker (Cron Trigger)
>   ○ Queue consumer & producer Worker
>   ○ API starter (OpenAPI compliant)
>   ○ Worker built from a template hosted in a git repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
╰ What type of application do you want to create? // [!code focus]
  ● "Hello World" Worker // [!code focus]
  ○ "Hello World" Worker (Python) // [!code focus]
  ○ "Hello World" Durable Object // [!code focus]
  ○ Website or web app // [!code focus]
  ○ Example router & proxy Worker // [!code focus]
  ○ Scheduled Worker (Cron Trigger) // [!code focus]
  ○ Queue consumer & producer Worker // [!code focus]
  ○ API starter (OpenAPI compliant) // [!code focus]
  ○ Worker built from a template hosted in a git repository // [!code focus]
```

```

Next, you are asked to choose whether you want to use TypeScript, if you want to use JavaScript, choose `No`. Here we choose `Yes`:

> ```sh

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```sh{11}
````

> ```sh

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```output
````

using create-cloudflare version 2.17.1

╭ Create an application with Cloudflare Step 1 of 3
│
├ In which directory do you want to create your application?
│ dir ./grammybot
│
├ What type of application do you want to create?
│ type "Hello World" Worker
│

> ╰ Do you want to use TypeScript?
>   Yes / No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
╰ Do you want to use TypeScript? // [!code focus]
  Yes / No // [!code focus]
```

```

Your project will be set up in a few minutes.
After that, you are asked about whether to use git for version control, choose `Yes` if you want the repo to be initialized automatically or `No` if you want to initialize by yourself later.

Here we choose `Yes`:

> ```sh

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```sh{36}
````

> ```sh

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```output
````

using create-cloudflare version 2.17.1

╭ Create an application with Cloudflare Step 1 of 3
│
├ In which directory do you want to create your application?
│ dir ./grammybot
│
├ What type of application do you want to create?
│ type "Hello World" Worker
│
├ Do you want to use TypeScript?
│ yes typescript
│
├ Copying template files
│ files copied to project directory
│
├ Updating name in `package.json`
│ updated `package.json`
│
├ Installing dependencies
│ installed via `npm install`
│
╰ Application created

╭ Configuring your application for Cloudflare Step 2 of 3
│
├ Installing @cloudflare/workers-types
│ installed via npm
│
├ Adding latest types to `tsconfig.json`
│ added @cloudflare/workers-types/2023-07-01
│
├ Retrieving current workerd compatibility date
│ compatibility date 2024-04-05
│

> ╰ Do you want to use git for version control?
>   Yes / No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
╰ Do you want to use git for version control? // [!code focus]
  Yes / No // [!code focus]
```

```

Finally, you are asked whether to deploy your worker, choose `No`, we will deploy it when we have a working Telegram bot:

> ```sh

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```sh{49}
````

> ```sh

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```output
````

using create-cloudflare version 2.17.1

╭ Create an application with Cloudflare Step 1 of 3
│
├ In which directory do you want to create your application?
│ dir ./grammybot
│
├ What type of application do you want to create?
│ type "Hello World" Worker
│
├ Do you want to use TypeScript?
│ yes typescript
│
├ Copying template files
│ files copied to project directory
│
├ Updating name in `package.json`
│ updated `package.json`
│
├ Installing dependencies
│ installed via `npm install`
│
╰ Application created

╭ Configuring your application for Cloudflare Step 2 of 3
│
├ Installing @cloudflare/workers-types
│ installed via npm
│
├ Adding latest types to `tsconfig.json`
│ added @cloudflare/workers-types/2023-07-01
│
├ Retrieving current workerd compatibility date
│ compatibility date 2024-04-05
│
├ Do you want to use git for version control?
│ yes git
│
├ Initializing git repo
│ initialized git
│
├ Committing new files
│ git commit
│
╰ Application configured

╭ Deploy with Cloudflare Step 3 of 3
│

> ╰ Do you want to deploy your application?
>   Yes / No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
╰ Do you want to deploy your application? // [!code focus]
  Yes / No // [!code focus]
```

## Prerequisites

1. a [Cloudflare account](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) with your workers subdomain [configured](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?account=workers).

> 2. a working [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/) environment with `npm` installed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. a working [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) environment with `npm` installed.
```

```

Your project will be set up in a few minutes.
After that, you will be asked whether you want to use git for version control, choose `Yes` if you want the repo to be initialized automatically or `No` if you want to initialize it by yourself later.

Here we choose `Yes`:

```ansi{36}
using create-cloudflare version 2.17.1

╭ Create an application with Cloudflare Step 1 of 3
│
├ In which directory do you want to create your application?
│ dir ./grammybot
│
├ What type of application do you want to create?
│ type "Hello World" Worker
│
├ Do you want to use TypeScript?
│ yes typescript
│
├ Copying template files
│ files copied to project directory
│
├ Updating name in `package.json`
│ updated `package.json`
│
├ Installing dependencies
│ installed via `npm install`
│
╰ Application created

╭ Configuring your application for Cloudflare Step 2 of 3
│
├ Installing @cloudflare/workers-types
│ installed via npm
│
├ Adding latest types to `tsconfig.json`
│ added @cloudflare/workers-types/2023-07-01
│
├ Retrieving current workerd compatibility date
│ compatibility date 2024-04-05
│
╰ Do you want to use git for version control?  // [!code focus]
  Yes / No  // [!code focus]
```

> Finally, you will be asked whether you want to deploy your worker, choose `No`, we will deploy it when we have a working Telegram bot:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Finally, you will be asked whether you want to deploy your worker, choose `No`, since we are going to deploy it when we have a working Telegram bot:
```

  // MY_DURABLE_OBJECT: DurableObjectNamespace;
  //
  // Example binding to R2. Learn more at https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/r2/
  // MY_BUCKET: R2Bucket;
  //
  // Example binding to a Service. Learn more at https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/service-bindings/
  // MY_SERVICE: Fetcher;
  //
  // Example binding to a Queue. Learn more at https://developers.cloudflare.com/queues/javascript-apis/
  // MY_QUEUE: Queue;
  BOT_INFO: string;
  BOT_TOKEN: string;
}

export default {
  async fetch(
    request: Request,
    env: Env,
    ctx: ExecutionContext,
  ): Promise<Response> {
    const bot = new Bot(env.BOT_TOKEN, { botInfo: JSON.parse(env.BOT_INFO) });

    bot.command("start", async (ctx: Context) => {
      await ctx.reply("Hello World!");
    });

    return webhookCallback(bot, "cloudflare-mod")(request);
  },
};
```

Here, we first import `Bot`, `Context` and `webhookCallback` from `grammy`.

Inside the interface `Env`, we add a variable `BOT_INFO`, this is an environment variable that stores your bot info, you can get your bot info by calling Telegram Bot API with `getMe` method.
Open this link in your web browser:

> ```ansi
> https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/getMe
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```ansi:no-line-numbers
https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/getMe
```
````

 *
 * Learn more at https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/
 */

import { Bot, Context, webhookCallback } from "grammy";

export interface Env {
  // Example binding to KV. Learn more at https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/kv/
  // MY_KV_NAMESPACE: KVNamespace;
  //
  // Example binding to Durable Object. Learn more at https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/durable-objects/
  // MY_DURABLE_OBJECT: DurableObjectNamespace;
  //
  // Example binding to R2. Learn more at https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/r2/
  // MY_BUCKET: R2Bucket;
  //
  // Example binding to a Service. Learn more at https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/service-bindings/
  // MY_SERVICE: Fetcher;
  //
  // Example binding to a Queue. Learn more at https://developers.cloudflare.com/queues/javascript-apis/
  // MY_QUEUE: Queue;
  BOT_INFO: string;
  BOT_TOKEN: string;
}

export default {
  async fetch(
    request: Request,
    env: Env,
    ctx: ExecutionContext,
  ): Promise<Response> {
    const bot = new Bot(env.BOT_TOKEN, { botInfo: JSON.parse(env.BOT_INFO) });

    bot.command("start", async (ctx: Context) => {

>       await ctx.reply("Hello World!");

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      await ctx.reply("Hello, world!");
```

Reviewer: Could you please sync these changes to all languages?

Reviewer 4: I didn't realize there were other files.

Ok. No problem.

Reviewer: > but in the UK file, "Hello World" is translated.
It's okay to leave them, then.

Pay attention to the three double quotation marks `"""` at the beginning and end.

In addition to `BOT_INFO`, we also add a variable `BOT_TOKEN`, this is an environment variable that stores your bot token that is used to create your bot.

You may notice that we just define the variable `BOT_TOKEN`, but didn't assign it yet.
Usually you need to store your environment variable in `wrangler.toml`, however, this is not safe in our case, since the bot token should be kept secret.
Cloudflare Workers provide us a safe way to store sensitive information like API keys and auth tokens in environment variable: [secrets](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/configuration/secrets/#secrets)!

::: tip
Secret values are not visible within Wrangler or the Cloudflare dashboard after you define them.
:::

You can add a secret to your project using the following command:

```sh
npx wrangler secret put BOT_TOKEN
```

Follow the instruction and input your bot token, your bot token will be uploaded and encrypted.

::: tip
You can change to whatever name you want for the environment variables, but keep in mind that you do the same in following steps.
:::

> Inside the function `fetch()`, we create a bot with `BOT_TOKEN` which replies "Hello, world!" when it receives `/start`.

Reviewer: This needs to be synced with the other languages. @roj1512, it's up to you to decide on this

> Inside the function `fetch()`, we create a bot with `BOT_TOKEN` which replies "Hello, world!" when it receives `/start`.

Reviewer 3: I think the code needs to be changed instead

## Debugging Your Bot

For testing and debugging purposes, you can run a local or remote development server before deploying your bot to production.

> In development environment, your worker doesn't have access to your secrete environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In development environment, your worker doesn't have access to your secret environment variables.
```

So, [according to Cloudflare](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/configuration/secrets/#secrets-in-development), you can create a `.dev.vars` file in the root of your project to define secrets:

> ```sh

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```env
````

BOT_TOKEN=<your_bot_token>  # <- replace this with your bot token.
```

::: tip
Replace `BOT_TOKEN` with your value if you change the environment variable name in the previous step.
:::

::: tip

> You can use the bot token of a different bot for development, so that the development doesn't influent the production bot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the bot token of a different bot for development, so that the development doesn't influence the production bot.
```

We need to tell Telegram where to send updates to.
Open your browser and visit this URL:

> ```ansi
> https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/setWebhook?url=https://<MY_BOT>.<MY_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev/
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```ansi:no-line-numbers
https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/setWebhook?url=https://<MY_BOT>.<MY_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev/
```
````

> Replace `<BOT_TOKEN>` with your bot token, replace `<MY_BOT>` with the name of your worker, replace `<MY_SUBDOMAIN>` with your worker subdomain configured on Cloudflare dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `<BOT_TOKEN>` with your bot token, replace `<MY_BOT>` with the name of your worker, replace `<MY_SUBDOMAIN>` with your worker's subdomain configured on the Cloudflare dashboard.
```

## Debugging Your Bot

For testing and debugging purposes, you can run a local or remote development server before deploying your bot to production.

> In development environment, your worker doesn't have access to your secret environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a development environment, your bot doesn't have access to your secret environment variables.
```

So, [according to Cloudflare](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/configuration/secrets/#secrets-in-development), you can create a `.dev.vars` file in the root of your project to define secrets:

```env
BOT_TOKEN=<your_bot_token>  # <- replace this with your bot token.
```

::: tip
Don't forget to add `BOT_INFO` for development in `wrangler.toml` as well.
Click [here](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/configuration/environment-variables/) for more details.
:::

::: tip
Replace `BOT_INFO` and `BOT_TOKEN` with your value if you change the environment variable name in the previous step.
:::

> ::: tip
> You can use the bot token of a different bot for development, so that the development doesn't influence the production bot.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: tip
You can use a different bot token for development to ensure it doesn't affect production.
:::
```

Now, you can run the following command to start a development server:

```sh
npm run dev
```

Once the development server has started, you can test your bot by sending sample updates to it using tools like `curl`, [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest), or [Postman](https://postman.com).
Refer to [here](https://core.telegram.org/bots/webhooks#testing-your-bot-with-updates) for update examples and [here](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#update) for more information on the update structure.

If you don't want to construct the update, or if you want to test with a real update, you can get the update from Telegram Bot API with `getUpdates` method.
To do that, you will need to delete the webhook first. Open your web browser and visit this link:

```ansi
https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/deleteWebhook
```

You will see a JSON response like this:

```json
{
    "ok": true,
    "result": true,
    "description": "Webhook was deleted"
}
```

Then, open your Telegram client and send something to the bot, e.g. send `/start`.

Now visit this link in your web browser to get the updates:

> ```ansi
> https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/getUpdates
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```ansi:no-line-numbers
https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/getUpdates
```
````

If successful, you will see a JSON response similar to this:

```json{4-29}
{
    "ok": true,
    "result": [
        {
            "update_id": 123456789,
            "message": {
                "message_id": 123,
                "from": {
                    "id": 987654321,
                    "is_bot": false,
                    "first_name": "",
                    "language_code": "en"
                },
                "chat": {
                    "id": 987654321,
                    "first_name": "",
                    "type": "private"
                },
                "date": 1712803046,
                "text": "/start",
                "entities": [
                    {
                        "offset": 0,
                        "length": 6,
                        "type": "bot_command"
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

`result` is an array of update objects (above only contains one update object), you should only copy one object and test your bot by post this object to the development server with the tools mentioned above.

> If you want to ignore outdated updates (e.g. ignore all updates during development before deploying to production environment), you can add a parameter `offset` to the `getUpdates` method like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to ignore outdated updates (e.g., ignore all updates during development before deploying to production environment), you can add a parameter `offset` to the `getUpdates` method like this:
```

> ```ansi
> https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/getUpdates?offset=<update_id>
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```ansi:no-line-numbers
https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/getUpdates?offset=<update_id>
```
````

> Replace `<BOT_TOKEN>` with your bot token, and replace `<update_id>` with the `update_id` of the latest update you get (the one with largest number), you will then only receive updates later than that update and can never get the updates of earlier anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `<BOT_TOKEN>` with your bot token, and replace `<update_id>` with the `update_id` of the latest update you received (the one with largest number), you will then only receive updates later than that update and will never be able to get the updates from earlier.
```

Now, you can test your bot with real update objects in your local development environment!

> You can also expose your local development server to public internet with some reverse proxy services like [Ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) and set the webhook to the URL you get from them, or you can set up your own reverse proxy if you have a public IP address, a domain name and a SSL certificate, but this is out of scope of this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also expose your local development server to the public internet using some reverse proxy services like [Ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) and set the webhook to the URL you get from them, or you can set up your own reverse proxy if you have a public IP address, a domain name and a SSL certificate, but that is beyond the scope of this guide.
```

> For more about how to set up a reverse proxy, please refer to the document of softwares you use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about setting up a reverse proxy, see the documentation for the software you are using.
```

::: warning

> Using a third-party reverse proxy carries the risk of information leakage!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a third-party reverse proxy may result in information leakage!
```
